SCRAP
Fabio Pugliese Ornellas
2005.02.09
%!Target: man
%!Options: -o scrap.1
= NAME =
SCRAP - Security Camera Recording APplication.
= FEATURES =
SCRAP is capable of working with any video4linux compatible device, supporring all of its documented features. It can grab frames from multiple inputs of a single device and also support working with multiple capture boards at the same time, giving user the advantage of a low-cost recording system.

It has a very reliable motion detection system, recording only when movement happens and ignoring the rest, including light changes. So, in a tipical 24h recording cycle, you will have only a few hours of recorded video.

Videos are recorded using XviD's MPEG-4 compression, witch is one of the best video codecs today. The generated AVIs should be playable on any AVI+MPEG4 capable video player (all modern video players are).

There is also a recording archive management system, with alow the user keep archived only recent recordings, erasing the old ones. User can set to erase recordings older than a number of days, or set a maximum disk usage.

Although SCRAP is a console application, it is full featured. It is intented to be run as a daemon, in the background, letting SCRAP doing the recording job without other systems users even notice it is running.
= OPTIONS =
Usage: scrap `[arguments]`

Where arguments can be:
== -c FILE ==
Configuration file with device capture options. Can be set many times, each one for a different capture device (see also **-s** option).
== -d ==
Run as a daemon.
== -h ==
Help.
== -l FILE ==
Log file. Default to stdout without -d and null if -d.
== -p DEVICE ==
Print capabilities for cameras in DEVICE (eg. /dev/video).
== -s ==
Dump sample configuration file to standard output.
== -v LEVEL ==
Log verbose level.
== -w ==
Disable performance warnings (slow capture / full frame queue).
= AUTHOR =
SCRAP is free software under the GPL, and was written by:

Fabio Pugliese Ornellas **<fabio.ornellas@gmail.com>**

**<http://www.geocities.com/neofpo/>**
